Welcome back.
We've learned our sorting algorithms by you might be asking yourself.
Andre I'm still kind of confused about when to use what what about if I get asked in an interview a
question about which sorting algorithm will be best.
If I had a user's data of 100 million names that need to be sorted Well let's go over some rules.
1.
When should you use insertion sort.
Well insertion sort should be used with only a few items if your input is small or items are mostly
sorted.
It's really really fast.
It uses very little space and most importantly it's really easy to implement in code.
So remember this only a few items and mostly sorted data you should use insertion sort of a bubble sort.
To be honest you're never going to use bubble sort.
It's only really used for educational purposes as a way to teach sorting.
But it's very rare that you'll find this in real life because is just not very efficient.
What about selection sort again.
Same thing with selecting sort as you can see it's numbers aren't very good.
So most likely you won't be using it.
Mostly it's being used as a teaching mechanism which I did.
Sorry didn't mean to waste your time with learning selection sorry but it is important to build the
foundation.
What about merge sort.
And this one's my favorite.
Why well Merced short is really really good because of divide and conquer.
We have all of and log and it's fast.
And because best average in worst case is always 0 of and log in we always divide up the seat evenly.
You can always guarantee that this is going to be the case.
Which is not the case for most other algorithms.
So if you're worried about worst case scenarios you should use Mirch sort.
But if you want to sort in memory on your machine and you're worried about space complexity merge sort
is going to be really expensive a userspace complexity of all of that.
However if he had huge files that can be sorted in memory so you have external sorting that you need
maybe like a process outside of memory it's suitable for external sorting then merge sort is good because
we won't care much as much about space complexity in what about quicksort.
Quicksort is actually better than Mirch sort rate average case and space complexity.
I mean it has the same speed as time as Merse short but less space complexity.
It's probably one of the most popular sorting algorithms but the one downside is this worse case if
you don't pick the paper properly you could have a really really slow sorting.
So you have to be careful and if you're really worried about worst case then you rather pick something
else.
Now you might be asking yourself Andre What about heapsort.
You haven't really talked about that.
I'm going to leave resources for you so you can learn about heapsort as well.
It's very similar to quicksort and merge sort but you see here that it has a space complexity of all
of one.
Isn't this better than all of the above.
Well he can sort in place and doesn't have the worst case quadratic behavior that quicksort has or the
memory usage that Mirch sort has but on average is actually slower than quicksort in most cases.
It's one of those things where with heapsort unless you're really really worried about worst case and
memory then you might use it but most of the time I would say you're using quicksort or or Murchadh
OK but you're saying what about these ones Swansdown here.
Bucket's sort radix sort.
Or radix sort and counting sort.
How come you're not talking about these ones.
Why can we just use these.
They look a lot better than all the other ones especially when it comes to time complexity.
Good question.
Let's talk about that in the next few.